Hello everyone.
Welcome to part 10 of the blog clone project.
So now it's time to actually debug and get our project up and running by setting up the admin and doing
the migration.
So let's go ahead and finish off this project and make sure that everything's working correctly.
I'm going to hop over to the editor now OK here and the editor and the first thing I want to make sure
that set up is adamant that PI file under blog haven't actually done the registrations yet.
So what I'm going to do is say from looks log the models import post and comment and once are those
ready to go.
I'm going to say Admin site that register in should actually be a lower case or so we will register
post and then we're going to do the exact same thing Admin site register and I'm going to register comment.
So save that and then I'm going to bring up my terminal in the terminal here when I'm going to do is
CD into the blog project folder and then let me CD into the my site folder.
And this is where I should be able to call Python a managed up up-I and I will call migrate and see
if that works for us.
Make sure no errors.
This may take a while if you haven't done it yet.
And then the other thing we're going to do after this is OK here we go.
Bingo we have some bugs that we need to do.
So it says right here in 9:28 class comments name model is not defined which means you probably forgot
to import something in the actual models.
So let's come here to models that apply and make sure that's all fixed.
So we'll come over here to this maybe either in the forms or let's see Knutsen the models that my file
comes models up pie's that says models not the fine meaning the should have been coming down here.
Those plural.
So I'm going to save that.
And let's run this again in a kind of trying to show you realistically how you would actually go about
doing these sort of debugging.
OK so this next bug that I got was an import error.
No module named blogs.
So all I have to do is scroll up and try to find out where was I trying to call blogs when I should
have just been calling blog Cingular and it looks like here in line 22 of my morals under my site.
I was calling blog site Oreilles.
Easy enough.
I just come back to your URLs that pie.
Come over here and see where I was actually calling blogs and actually the wrong Urals peafowl.
This one is the one I want.
Scroll down and it says blogs that URL that should be blog Seether save that.
No problem.
And now let's try to run this again.
And we're basically going to keep doing this until we fix all these various bugs.
Now if you don't actually want to spend the time to go through this sort of more realistic debugging
process feel free to just copy and paste all the text files from the actual notes.
But this is kind of trying to show you what realistically would happen if we went about the project
this way.
OK so we have some invalid syntax.
I probably forgot to close this off so I'll say from blog import views and the views that py file and
a hopla over to that the used up by.
And it looks like it's having issues with my syntax here and it's because I forgot a comma so save that.
No problem.
And Loren Python managed up high and needs to say your oh no migration is to play perfect.
So let's actually check this out.
Say Python managed up high and I going say make migrations blog.
Run that and it looks like it said create model comment create model post at field post comment.
Perfect way to say Python managed up high.
Migrate again.
And it's going to apply those migrations to the blog.
Perfect.
And now what I'm going to also do is say Python creates a actually Python manage that PI create super
I can spell this right super user.
And then what I'm also going to do here is hit enter and we may have an issue.
So it says hits it seems you set a fixed date as a default for this field may not be what you want.
Now do you want to have the current blah blah.
You can actually ignore these for now.
It's not a big deal given the way we're doing things.
So we're going to do is say user name is Jose.
Email address can just do whatever Hello.
Email the password all use test password password again.
Say as password and then the super user was created successfully.
So let's see if we can actually get this project run well say Python managed up-I run server
and there it is so time to kind of cross our fingers and make sure we actually get.
We're going to copy that.
And let's bring in over the browser.
OK so coming to the Yoro page we see this no reverse match.
And if it looks empty like this where it says no queries set or arguments or missings or a package tried
this is a really common error when you're working with your old templates.
And if you see here it says error during template rendering which kind of gives you a hint that it has
to do templates and it's also in the template and it's right here.
If you kind of zoom in me do a couple pluses here it's under post lists that T.M. error at line 0.
And you notice that the first line we're doing is we're extending from base each tim L..
So that's where we can look for this actual error.
And this is something you're going to see all the time the sort of no reverse match especially when
you're starting out which is why I kind of really want to show you how you can debug this on your own.
So we'll come back to the editor over here and what I'm going to do is here have post-literate h tim
L I can double check to make sure my you URLs are OK and usually a common mistake is to kind of mess
up these quotes right here or forget these quotes up here.
And if you come back to base at CML these are all looking OK to me.
What we can do it baseline each Tomales do control f and then look up u r l and then explore which ones
seem to be having the errors.
So we see here we have this nav bars.
There's your L's in there and we kind of find the culprit right here.
Your post list looks like we forgot to put or I forgot to put in the quotes.
So I will save that.
And now let's kind of start this guy back up again.
Well actually we can just play compare and refresh this page see if it works.
And there it is my blog about hub Linked-In.
So so far so good we'll keep our fingers crossed make sure everything's working.
Hit that button and bingo have another.
It's a template syntax error and it's happening at a count logon.
So thanks to Django I kind of already have an idea where it's happening.
It's happening log in that age T.M. but even better it says invalid.
BLOCK tag that's a keyword with form as P says expected.
End the block and you might be thinking well that's where we never have to put an end block with a form
and then it says Did you forget to register or load this tag.
Well maybe I did but that's weird because I wouldn't have an end block form as P..
And if you scroll down it actually highlights it for you.
And this is where we can actually see the error we did here.
We were using the wrong template tagging remember with format as P just injected.
It's not an actual code.
Here with the percent sign.
So coming back to our logged in that age T.M. what actually should have done was have the sort of syntax
these double brackets since I'm essentially just injecting that form in.
So I'm going to save that.
And now let's try this again I'll come back refreshed the home page and now it seems to be working if
I hit the person my user name is Jose.
And then let's input test password log in see if we get an error.
OK.
Looks like I'm zoomed in right now which is why you kind of get this weird behavior.
But if you start zooming out you see it right a line.
So let's check this all out see if it works.
I'll hit a new post see if we can there.
So far so good.
Jose the title of my post test post and let's type in some text so I'll say something like and we can
see that the color changing is working.
So this is a test.
And if I highlight it I can see that if I put in bold here it's actually working so let's save this.
If we get an error OK looks like that's actually working.
Nice.
Let's try editing it first.
So it says this is a test.
I'm going to say add on at it and it actually wants to be bold so we'll say something like underline
it without the build and then save that.
OK so looks like we are not seeing the actual content of the posts so just this test post we'll have
to check back on that.
But let's see if we publish it if we actually end up seeing that content.
So I hit publish and nothing's happening I'm not being redirected anywhere.
Meaning if I come over to my blog I don't see anything.
So something has an issue when we're actually dealing with editing and posts.
So let's come back here to draps and bingo.
We found the air.
OK.
So now we see we have this field error at drafts and it says it cannot resolve.
Keyword created in the field.
Choices are Author Author.
The comments create date etc..
So this is actually quite an obvious error.
Hopefully you can see here that somewhere along the lines I started calling it created that instead
of create dates.
So we have two options here.
Either I change the model to have it say create a date or I changed his keyword to say create date.
It's up to you at this stage.
Which way you should go.
If you already have a bunch of stuff in your models you already create a bunch of blog posts then you
should probably affect the keyword here instead of the actual choices here but where we're going to
do is kind of explore how we could fix this since we're just starting out.
So I'll hop back over to this and I'm going to come to models of Pi.
It's kind of confirm here I have create dates and what it should have been is created date.
So I could do that or the other thing I could have done is go back to the actual reference of created
date so if I come over to draft's loops Let's expand this.
So coming over to my post draft list somewhere along the lines here I said created dates instead of
create date.
So I would actually usually recommend that you've fixed this in the H.T. mail template rather than coming
over here and affecting your model.
But since we're just starting out I think it's better to kind of switch the model out nuts also because
this matches the notes so I will save this into to control see here and migrate everything again since
I affected the model.
So say Python managed up-I migrate and it has no migrations to apply so annoying to say Python managed
up-I make migrations and then call blog over and it said Alter field.
So I added this and alter that so perfect.
So then we can all see its affecting comments and if we come over to comments let's make sure that's
worked well.
So we see create date there and let's have that be also created.
So we're kind of going to fix that as well.
Created dates and I will save that and Altes actually run that same line again.
OK so it's altered that in the comments as well.
And I have created they are both them and I won't say Python managed up-I migrates and it's going to
apply all those changes.
Let's start off by actually saying Python managed up-I run server and see if that works for us.
I'm going to refresh my drafts and test post.
Perfect.
So I come to my blog.
I have nothing to my drafts.
Looks like that's working.
It test post and it looks like I still can't register what I'm actually adding here.
So if I type some stuff here you can see that the colors are changing.
I can highlight stuff take away the underline I can save it but it's not actually showing the text so
somewhere along the line I'm not injecting that text.
So let's see if it works have comments.
If I say add comments let's put in a new author for this comment so will say visitor will type this
text.
This is a comment text.
I'm going to post the comments and it looks like I can see the text there.
So to prove this so that comets don't approve but I still can't see a test post.
Even when I click publish I can see that nothing's really happening so come back to my blog draft's.
Something's wrong with that publish button so let's go check it out back here.
All right so coming back to the post detail page which is where I should be going to.
Chicken her again to review this coming down.
Once you clicked publish somewhere so here it is once they click publish it should be taking me to the
post detail page so something's up here.
Let's go to that post detail page and see if we notice anything kind of fishy so I'm going to get a
little more room here.
And you'll notice that I have this post content class and appear.
I'm calling the title over here and post content.
I'm accidentally calling the title again.
This should have been actually calling the contents of that post which makes sense and the content of
that post was the text.
So let's type that in a text and save that and see if we can continue debugging this as I refresh.
And now I see this is a test add on Edit etc..
So looks like that actually worked.
Let's see if hitting the publish button affects this.
Still I suspect would not do anything so there's publish or not getting any sort of redirect published
but we figured out why wasn't showing that actual text of the post.
So let's figure out how we can connect this publish button to actually work going to come back here
and then let's check out the actual draft page or the post detail page.
Looks like or it's let's actually try to track down the source of that error when you hit that publish
button nothing's really happening.
So if we come back to the post detailed view I see here that the button I'm pressing is this one right
here.
Class has a button default.
And then if you look at the graph it's taking us to post publish with the primary key equal to postop
piquet.
So let's go ahead and review that post publish you l and see if there's the issue there.
So I'll come over here you are I'll stop by and lo and behold the very last one is the publish one.
Well that's interesting.
And it looks here that this is OK it's going to take you to post the primary key and then publish the
view is post published.
That makes sense.
And the name matches those published.
So that means the culprit might be at The View.
Let's go with the views that PI file and explore that so it can be used up high.
And then we'll scroll down until we actually get to that post published for you that function view.
And then here it is it says loggin required Post publish ill get object or four or four and then it's
going to call this method on that post object.
The published method and it's going to redirect you back to the post detail.
So so for that actually kind of makes sense so maybe the problem is not with the view of the model itself.
And if you remember back when we first started this Gengel tried to warn us about a time zone problem
and we're basically about to see why it was trying to warn us.
So one thing here is that I'm calling the method but not executing it.
So that's the main error we have is I was executing it.
So we're going to save that and then I'm also going to you can see immediately fix that.
But besides that I also want to make sure that the post is OK.
I'm going to come back to models that pie and remember that Jinger was warning us about some sort of
time zone issue.
Well we can see here that I was supposed to be actually calling publish instead of just whoops over
and use that by assigning it.
So we're actually calling it to execute now which makes more sense.
And going back to models up-I in other issue that Gengel was complaining about which is a little hard
to explain if you haven't seen it often is the issue of the date time field the default being time zone.
Now I was actually calling it to execute Q But what it really wants appear is just the function itself.
So you don't execute it here inside of that date time field.
So now I'm going to save that and I will also save my post detailed page.
And let's try this again and then to refresh and then again to hit publish and Whoops looks like I need
to log in again.
So we'll say test password log in and now we can see that the publish is gone.
So if I go back to my blog now I see a test post with one comment.
Perfect.
So let's try this all again and make sure that it's actually working or create a new post.
It's going to be by me in full call.
We called this last test post and we'll say hello world.
My site is functional all hit save.
Looks like it says hello world.
My say is functional.
If I hit draft's I should see it there.
Last test post perfect.
And then if I add a comment I should be able to do that.
You already tested this out but let's try this again some visitor blah blah blah whatever.
Post comments here I can see it can either be removed or approved and I'm going to try to publish this
and looks like the publisher is gone and he gets publication they come to my blog and I see less test
posts.
Let's make sure I can actually remove and delete posts so that there wasn't any issues to delete views
going to delete this post right here by pressing x.
Perfect.
Are you sure you want to confirm that you want to delete this.
Like I mentioned maybe having loader and everything isn't a good idea since this is constantly changing
colors but will go ahead and confirm and looks like it deleted it.
So my blog and I can also cook on about make sure it takes into that temple of view about this company.
Thanks for checking it out and let's make sure I can log out and still see everything.
So if I log out it my blog hit test post everything's functional and it looks like we were able to successfully
get rid of all the errors and troubleshoot this thing.
That was more or less a realistic experience of what it would be like debugging the stuff.
I think the hardest thing as far as this particular debugging call was this one right here.
When we come to models and fix this time zone that now in fact we haven't even agreed to that change
it so hasn't taken place.
But that's the only one where you really have to have experience to understand that you want it to just
passen the function itself instead of calling a function.
So to fix that again you'd have to do is come over here and then call Python managed up-I migrate again.
So we'll do that before we actually host the Web site on some sort of server.
Ok thanks everyone.
Hope you enjoyed the basics of the project and hope this gave you some ideas of how you can create your
own blog.
Thanks and I'll see at the next lecture.